README.md, before:

# Things To Know As A Programmer #
A collection of links to and thoughts about being a good programmer. I make no claim to this being the ultimate guide. It is merely my own thoughts on the subject and others thoughts that I agree with to some or the full extent.

## README files ##
Readme files are an essential explenation of your software and most projects will have one. At least if they are public. Please do no be afraid to use them in private repos as well. Include anything that is needed to get started with the project and explaining the perticular aspects of the project. Why have you made designdecissions and such. Tailor the readme to the target. If you have a library focus on how to use the library. If it's an internal repo with multiple developers explain how to continue developing the project and how to test and run it.
Most README files are written in Markdown (.md). This is a nice way to make it more readable.

Included in the repo is the file markdown_cheatsheet.md copied from https://github.com/tchapi/markdown-cheatsheet/blob/master/README.md .

## Things for a junior dev ##
### Or any devs really ###
https://twitter.com/ClayDowling/status/1375891016453136384

## Blogs & Books ##
https://medium.com/@marinithiago/

### Clean Code and Uncle Bob ###
Uncle Bob (or Robert C. Martin) is a legend within programming and as much of a must to read that there is. Even if you do not agree with him you should read his books to know what other people are talking about.
#### Books: ####
##### Clean Code ##### 
(ISBN-13: 978-0132350884) This is his most iconic book. The book explain what makes good code that doesn't smell. The book is in some ways contradictory to what other things you might have learned.
##### The Clean Coder #####
(ISBN 978-0132542883) What makes a good, professional coder? This books aims to give the reader some answers to those questions.
##### Clean Architecture #####
(ISBN 9780134494166) The follow up to Clean Code where the reader learns to take a more birds eye view and create architecture insted of just code.
#### Blog ####
https://blog.cleancoder.com/

## Architecture ##
### Microservices vs Monoliths ###
https://medium.com/@marinithiago/monolith-microservices-and-architectural-quanta-c1327428d652

## Testing ##
### Charactirization tests vs Unit Tests ###
https://michaelfeathers.silvrback.com/characterization-testing

## Git ##
### Oh shit moments ###
If you ever have problems with git. Maybe something you did or you don't understand what's happening. The following links are really good.

[https://ohshitgit.com/](https://ohshitgit.com/)

[https://firstaidgit.io/](https://firstaidgit.io/)

### About commit messages ###
Writing good commit messages is actually hard. Make sure you have a uniformed way of writing them in your team / organization.

#### What tense should git messages be in? ####
[https://www.danclarke.com/git-tense](https://www.danclarke.com/git-tense) 
A lot of people prefere imperetive form on the commit messages and here's a discussion on how people reason.

## Useful software ##
A list of free useful tools. This includes everything from testing to hosting, monitoring and so on.
[https://freestuff.dev/](https://freestuff.dev/)

### Awesome IDEs ###
#### Visual studio Code ####
[https://code.visualstudio.com/](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
First of Visual Studio Code might be the most popular editor now days. It's a generic IDE that handles language support by plugins. It have a large community behind it making plugins for pretty much anything. Microsoft is also adding plugins and continiously releasing new version.

#### PyCharm ####
[https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)
One of the most populair python IDEs out there. Also support some front end and have lot's of features.

Commit message:

Adding more info about git
There are so much info to say about git.

README.md, after:

# Things To Know As A Programmer #
A collection of links to and thoughts about being a good programmer. I make no claim to this being the ultimate guide. It is merely my own thoughts on the subject and others thoughts that I agree with to some or the full extent.

## README files ##
Readme files are an essential explenation of your software and most projects will have one. At least if they are public. Please do no be afraid to use them in private repos as well. Include anything that is needed to get started with the project and explaining the perticular aspects of the project. Why have you made designdecissions and such. Tailor the readme to the target. If you have a library focus on how to use the library. If it's an internal repo with multiple developers explain how to continue developing the project and how to test and run it.
Most README files are written in Markdown (.md). This is a nice way to make it more readable.

Included in the repo is the file markdown_cheatsheet.md copied from https://github.com/tchapi/markdown-cheatsheet/blob/master/README.md .

## Things for a junior dev ##
### Or any devs really ###
https://twitter.com/ClayDowling/status/1375891016453136384

## Blogs & Books ##
https://medium.com/@marinithiago/

### Clean Code and Uncle Bob ###
Uncle Bob (or Robert C. Martin) is a legend within programming and as much of a must to read that there is. Even if you do not agree with him you should read his books to know what other people are talking about.
#### Books: ####
##### Clean Code ##### 
(ISBN-13: 978-0132350884) This is his most iconic book. The book explain what makes good code that doesn't smell. The book is in some ways contradictory to what other things you might have learned.
##### The Clean Coder #####
(ISBN 978-0132542883) What makes a good, professional coder? This books aims to give the reader some answers to those questions.
##### Clean Architecture #####
(ISBN 9780134494166) The follow up to Clean Code where the reader learns to take a more birds eye view and create architecture insted of just code.
#### Blog ####
https://blog.cleancoder.com/

## Architecture ##
### Microservices vs Monoliths ###
https://medium.com/@marinithiago/monolith-microservices-and-architectural-quanta-c1327428d652

## Testing ##
### Charactirization tests vs Unit Tests ###
https://michaelfeathers.silvrback.com/characterization-testing

## Git ##
Git is a tool developed by Linus Torvalds (yeah Linux guy). It is the defacto version control system today, but there are alternatives ou there. 
### Learnign git ###
[https://www.w3schools.com/git/default.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/git/default.asp)

#### Branching in Git ####
[https://learngitbranching.js.org/](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)
Working is a big thing in Git and here is a good guide to how it works.

### Oh shit moments ###
If you ever have problems with git. Maybe something you did or you don't understand what's happening. The following links are really good.

[https://ohshitgit.com/](https://ohshitgit.com/)

[https://firstaidgit.io/](https://firstaidgit.io/)

### Git Tools ###
#### Easier tools ####
[https://desktop.github.com/](https://desktop.github.com/)
[https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/)

#### Advances tools ####
[https://cli.github.com/](https://cli.github.com/)

### About commit messages ###
Writing good commit messages is actually hard. Make sure you have a uniformed way of writing them in your team / organization.

#### What tense should git messages be in? ####
[https://www.danclarke.com/git-tense](https://www.danclarke.com/git-tense) 
A lot of people prefere imperetive form on the commit messages and here's a discussion on how people reason.

## Useful software ##
A list of free useful tools. This includes everything from testing to hosting, monitoring and so on.
[https://freestuff.dev/](https://freestuff.dev/)

### Awesome IDEs ###
#### Visual studio Code ####
[https://code.visualstudio.com/](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
First of Visual Studio Code might be the most popular editor now days. It's a generic IDE that handles language support by plugins. It have a large community behind it making plugins for pretty much anything. Microsoft is also adding plugins and continiously releasing new version.

#### PyCharm ####
[https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)
One of the most populair python IDEs out there. Also support some front end and have lot's of features.
